DOCS-5962 update restrictions doc to better explain the restrictions features (#836)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/authentication/configuration/restrictions.mdx

---
title: Restrictions
description: Learn how to manage user access to your application by configuring Clerk's access restrictions.
---

# Restrictions

> Clerk provides a set of restriction options designed to provide you with enhanced control over who can gain access to your application. Through these restriction settings, you can limit sign-ups or prevent accounts with specific identifiers from accessing your application. These [identifiers](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#identifiers) can be email addresses, phone numbers, and even entire domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clerk provides restriction options that give you enhanced control over who can access your application. These options enable you to limit sign-ups or prevent accounts with specific [identifiers](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#identifiers), such as email address, from accessing your application.
```
Just simplifying the language 👍

There are two main types of restrictions available:

- [Allowlist](#allowlist) - Allows only specific identifiers to sign up for your application.
- [Blocklist](#blocklist) - Blocks specific identifiers from signing up for your application.

> In addition to these, there is also the [Block email subaddresses](#block-email-subaddresses) feature, which blocks email addresses that contain the characters `+`, `=` or `#` from signing up or being added to existing accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is also the [Block email subaddresses](#block-email-subaddresses) feature, which blocks email addresses that contain the characters `+`, `=` or `#` from signing up or being added to existing accounts.
```

> All of these restrictions can be enabled and used together to provide a more secure and controlled environment for your application. In the case you have enabled the allowlist and the blocklist and have added the same identifier in both, the allowlist takes precedence.

Reviewer 2: >  In the case you have enabled the allowlist and the blocklist and have added the same identifier in both, the allowlist takes precedence.

Nice, I know this is mentioned in the Dashboard too but this is a good one to make sure people **know**

## Allowlist

<Callout type="info">
  Allowlist is a premium feature and is not available on the Free plan. [Upgrade your plan](https://clerk.com/pricing) to enable this feature.
</Callout>

> By adding specific identifiers to the allowlist, *only* users with those identifiers will be able to sign up for your application, while others will be blocked. This is most commonly useful for internal tools, where you want to allow only users with your company domain to have access to the application. After creating an account, users cannot change their identifier to bypass the allowlist, making this feature a secure way to control who can access your application. For example, if you add `clerk.dev` as an allowed email domain, any user with a `@clerk.dev` email address can sign up for your application. Email addresses from different domains will not be able to sign up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By adding specific identifiers to the allowlist, *only* users with those identifiers will be able to sign up for your application, while others will be blocked. This is useful for internal tools, where you want to allow only users with your company domain to have access to the application.

After creating an account, users cannot change their identifier to bypass the allowlist, making this feature a secure way to control who can access your application. For example, if you add `clerk.dev` as an allowed email domain, any user with a `@clerk.dev` email address can sign up for your application. Email addresses from different domains will not be able to sign up.
```

Just breaking this up a bit. Love the example

To enable this feature:
1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **User & Authentication > [Restrictions](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/restrictions)**.
3. In the **Allowlist** section, toggle on **Enable allowlist**.

<Callout type="danger">

>   Be aware that turning on the Allowlist feature without adding any identifier exceptions blocks *all* sign-ups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Enabling the Allowlist without adding any identifier exceptions blocks *all* sign-ups.
```

</Callout>

## Blocklist

<Callout type="info">
  Blocklist is a premium feature and is not available on the Free plan. [Upgrade your plan](https://clerk.com/pricing) to enable this feature.
</Callout>

> By adding specific identifiers to the blocklist, users with those identifiers will be blocked from signing up for your application. This is most commonly useful in attack prevention. For example, if you have spam accounts signing up with a specific email domain, you can block those email addresses or the entire email domain to prevent further sign-ups. For example, if you add `clerk.dev` as a blocked email domain, it means that anybody with a `@clerk.dev` email address will not be able to sign up for your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By adding specific identifiers to the blocklist, users with those identifiers will be blocked from signing up for your application. This is useful for attack prevention, such as when multiple spam accounts sign up to your up. For example, if you add `clerk.dev` as a blocked email domain, it means that anybody with a `@clerk.dev` email address will not be able to sign up for your application.
```

Suggested removing the first example, as it feels redundant with the second one there and I think this still conveys your overall message

To enable this feature:
1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **User & Authentication > [Restrictions](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/restrictions)**.
3. In the **Blocklist** section, toggle on **Enable blocklist**.

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">
  In the case you have enabled the Allowlist and the Blocklist and have added the same identifier in both, the Allowlist takes precedence.
</Callout>

> For additional security, adding an individual email address to the blocklist will also block any attempts to sign up with the email address modified to contain a subaddress. Subaddresses are identified by the presense of any of the following characters in the local part of the email address: `+`, `#`, `=`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional security, adding an individual email address to the blocklist will also block any attempts to sign up with the email address modified to contain a subaddress. Subaddresses are identified by the presence of any of the following characters in the local part of the email address: `+`, `#`, `=`.
```
small typo

For example, if you add `john.doe@clerk.dev` as a blocked email address, it means that anybody with `john.doe@clerk.dev` email address will not be able to sign up for your application, including `john.doe+anything@clerk.dev` and any other subaddress.

> ## Other restrictions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think we need this

> ### Block email subaddresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Block email subaddresses
```
And we can make this an H2 so it stands on its own

> The block email subaddresses feature allows you to block all email addresses that contain the characters `+`, `=` or `#` from signing up or being added to existing accounts. For example, an email address like `user+sub@clerk.com` will be blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Block email subaddresses** allows you to block all email addresses that contain the characters `+`, `=` or `#` from signing up or being added to existing accounts. For example, an email address like `user+sub@clerk.com` will be blocked.
```
Since it's a setting in the dashboard, we should bold it for consistency (IMO)

<Callout type="info">
  Existing accounts with email subaddresses will not be affected by this restriction, and will still be allowed to sign in.
</Callout>

To enable this feature:
1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **User & Authentication > [Restrictions](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/restrictions)**.
3. In the **Restrictions** section, toggle on **Block email subaddresses**.

### Block sign-ups that use disposable email addresses

> The block disposable email addresses feature allows you to block all email addresses that are *known to be disposable* from signing up for your application. This is useful to prevent spam accounts from signing up.

Reviewer: Is there any more information on what we consider "known to be disposable"? If there's a list of domains that we use, it'd be worth linking to it here. If not, maybe we can just elaborate on our logic for what's "disposable"

Author: Yes that's what I wanted to do, but not only do we have a place that we could link to but the list has over 165k entries - see slack discussion here https://clerkinc.slack.com/archives/C01L98VHLM6/p1690548173428209
